Translations has been a topic I've avoided for quite a bit of time.
This is because translations can be a bit intimidating to newcomers.
It's not at all but it is kind of boring and time consuming.
Throughout the years developers have come up with solutions for translating scripts from creating arrays
classes or even PCL extensions.
Each solution has its pros and cons.
WordPress has decided to opt into the get text extension gets text isn't specific to HP or WordPress.
It's a standard created to help with translating programs BJP implements get text into its programming
language and WordPress leverages this by providing an API the Get text extension is a pretty hard concept
to understand and use.
So we won't be going over how it works.
It's not really the end of the world.
If you don't know the whole logic behind it for the most part you never have to worry about checking
to see if this extension is enabled.
Most PHC servers come with it installed and enabled by default.
As a result WordPress uses this translation system itself.
If the get test extension doesn't work then WordPress won't work.
So it's safe to assume if a user installs our plugin then they won't have any trouble with translations
in the resource section of this lecture.
I provide a link to WordPress is internationalization Codex page.
Here's what WordPress has to say about it.
Internationalization is the process of developing your theme so it can easily be translated into other
languages.
Internationalization is often abbreviated as I 1810 because there are 18 letters between the letters
I and N.
Seems like a complicated process but I promise it's not the first step to translating a plugin or theme
is to make all strings inside the plugin or theme translatable.
Fortunately for us we've been doing that from the start.
Let's go over some of these functions.
All right.
So now I'm inside my function's file and I've added in some examples of the translation functions available.
You do not have to add these in.
This is just an example.
The first thing you need to understand is a text domain.
I've gone over it before but it's been quite some time since then.
So I'm going to review it.
A text domain is a unique ideas for your translations wordpress themes and plugins will all come with
their own translations.
There is a possibility that there might be conflicting translations to prevent conflicts.
You can use a text domain text domains give you the ability to specify where a translation should come
from.
Ninety nine percent of the time you want to set the text domain to the name of your plugin or theme
folder.
In our case it would be you to me.
WordPress will provide a set of functions for translating strings for the most part WordPress covers
a lot of situations so generally translating your theme or plugin isn't hard.
We've been using some of these functions throughout the course.
The first function is the double underscore function.
The double underscore function is the most commonly used translation function out of all of them.
It only has two parameters which is the text to translate and the text domain.
If there is no translation to be found then WordPress will return the original string.
This applies to most translation functions.
If a translation can be found then the original string is used instead.
The other function is the underscore e function which does the same thing as the devil underscore a
function except it will echo out the value rather than returning it.
The third function is the underscore X function which allows you to provide context for a translation.
There are words out there that are spelled the same but have different meanings by using the underscore
X function.
You can provide a comment to the translator for more information.
And this example I'm using the word bass without context then the translator might have a hard time
figuring out which bass I'm talking about.
This function allows you to use the second parameter as a way to describe the translated text.
It doesn't do anything for wordpress or affect the outcome of the string.
Its purpose is just for the translators eyes only.
In this example I'm telling the translator I'm talking about the instrument base.
The fourth function is the underscore end function which is for plurals.
This function has four parameters.
The first parameter is for the singular version of the text.
The second parameter is the plural version of the text.
The third parameter is the most important one you pass in a number.
This can be hardcoded or you can pass in a variable in most cases you want to pass in a variable.
However in this example I'm keeping it simple.
If the value for this parameter is 1 then the singular version of the translation is used.
If the number is not 1 then the plural version is used.
I'm showing how to use both the singular or plural versions.
The next function is the underscore e x function.
This function is a combination of the underscore X and underscore e functions.
It will echo out a translated string that has a context.
Likewise we have the underscore and X which will return a singular or plural translation that has context
that basically sums it up for these set of functions.
But there is one problem with them.
These functions should be use caution because they don't provide escape data.
You should always want to make sure anything you output is secured and safe for the user.
With that said WordPress does provide a set of functions for escaping translated strings right below.
I have some example of those functions.
They are the same as the functions above except they start with EFC underscore HDMI out.
These functions will not only translate strings but will also remove HDMI out.
In this last example I'm using a combination of functions in some cases you may want to allow HCM L
and your translated strings for these cases.
You'll have to use the double underscore function.
However you shouldn't allow all HDD email to be passed.
You can use the WP underscore KSC yes underscore post function to remove any harmful h t email or attributes
like I do in this example.
All right that pretty much sums up most of the translation functions.
I highly recommend you give this page a good read for more techniques on how to perform translations
for the most part.
I find myself using the E S C underscore H2 e-mail underscore underscore and e SC underscore HCM l underscore
e functions from my translations.
Now that we have an overview of our functions let's start with translating our plugin since our plugin
is translation ready.
We have to inform WordPress where it can find the translation files in the main plugin file and the
action hook plugins loaded
this hook will run when all plugins are loaded.
This is the recommended hook for loading translations.
The function to call is are load text domain create a file and the includes folder named Tex still mean
dot P. HP and define the function here.
Lastly include this file from the main plugin file
inside the function we have to call the WordPress function load plugin text domain this function has
three parameters.
The first parameter is the name of the text domain which is recipe the text domain name should always
be the name of the plugin folder.
The second parameter is deprecated.
WordPress keeps this parameter for backwards compatibility.
We're going to set this to false.
The third parameter is the location to our translations.
The path will be relative to the plugins folder.
I'm going to create a variable named plug in Dir and set its value to recipe slash Lane we're going
to store all our translations in a folder called Lane.
It's important to note that you don't have to name your folder Lane.
It can we name whatever name you want.
However a lot of plugins and themes use the name Lang as a convention.
Lastly let's create the folder Lang inside the recipe plugin.
That's it.
WordPress will now load translations from this folder.
However we don't have any translations despite this.
WordPress won't throw any errors if it can't find a translation.
Now it's time to start generating some translations for our plugin.
There are three important files when it comes to translating WordPress plugins and themes.
That's the M.O. P O and P O T files.
Each of these have a purpose.
The P O T file is a template that contains all the original translations WordPress does not load this
file.
The purpose of this file is for translators to make a copy of this file and then change the text to
their desired language.
However this is a file that should only be modified by a developer.
The P O file is like the P O T file except it's meant for translators to update.
Just like the P O T file these kinds of files are human readable just like the P O T file.
This file is not processed or read by WordPress.
The M O file is a machine readable file you should never open or edit these files as they contain text
that only servers are able to read and use M O files are generated from paedophiles
creating these files can be a bit challenging and time consuming.
Luckily get Tex has been around for quite some time and there are a lot of tools available for handling
most of the work for us.
I want you to go to plugins add new and search for a plugin and called loco translate install and activate
this plugin.
This is a free plugin for generating all the files you'll need for translations.
It's constantly updated and user friendly.
Let's get started with using it.
The first step.
We must always take it to generate the P.O. t file.
I want you to go to loco translate plugins
here you'll find a list of plugins available.
Click on the plugin recipe you'll be told that there are no translations available for this plugin.
If we were to click on the new language button you'll be told that there is no template for logo to
work with.
You'll be given the option of generating a template so let's do that now.
You'll be told how many files are going to be scanned and where the file will be created.
Everything seems good for now so let's click Create template
you should see a success message telling you that the template was created.
Let's go back to the editor and check to see if the file was created
inside the recipe plugin folder.
You should find a file called recipe dot peyote.
Let's open the file and check out the contents.
As you can see the file contains all our translations.
You'll first see this section where it contains information about the file itself.
For the most part you don't have to worry about this.
It's mostly for the server to read and understand local has taken the time to optimize this for you
already.
If you scroll down a little further you'll see a list of translations.
Each translation is broken down in 2 three parts.
The first part is this comment a hash is considered a common inside this file loco has taken the time
to specify where you can find the translation by the file name and line number right after this.
You'll see a key called M. SGI.
This will contain the original translation after this is the image GSC Aki which contains the text that
the original text will be translated to.
All you have to do is edit the text inside here.
However this file should be modified by developers only if you are a translator then you need to make
a copy of this file and use the P.O. extension.
We can do this manually but local translate can help us with this.
Let's go back to the plugin page and see how to do this.
I want you to click on new language.
You will be allowed to select your language.
Feel free to pick any language you want.
I'm going to select French.
You'll be then asked where you want to save this file.
Be sure to select the author path.
You may want to select the other paths as files can be overwritten local will provide a directory for
your translations if needed.
Since we're the developer of this plugin then it's perfectly fine to save it inside our plugin directory.
Next click Create
local will then give you the opportunity to start translating or streams.
First you must select the string you want to translate then you'll see the translation below.
You'll also see an input field where you can input the translation on the right you'll see the comments
box.
If you can recall we can give the translators some context just in case.
This is where that context will appear.
I'm going to select the text and translate it.
The translation for recipe is reset just to save some time.
I'm not going to translate all the strings.
The last step is to just click save when you're done.
This will generate two files for you.
A P.O. and Elmo file if you open up your editor you'll see these two files appear here.
This is great and all but I want these to appear inside my Lang folder so I'll move all my translations
into the Lang folder.
This is one of the problems with logo translate.
It will only load the translations inside the root plugin folder even though you specify otherwise.
Let's open the P.O. file and check out what we got.
The first thing you'll notice is the file name.
This is very important when creating translations.
When you translate to a specific language you need to add the locale to the file name.
The format for the file name is the text domain followed by the low count loco will take care of setting
up the correct locale for you.
This file is exactly like the P.O. t file except it will contain all your translations.
You're free to edit this file anytime you'd like.
The next file that's generated is the M O file under no circumstance should you open this file.
This is because text editors tend to destroy the contents of this file.
This file contains code that only machines can understand.
Despite my warnings I'm going to open this file as you can see there's all this gibberish that doesn't
really make sense.
The file is now corrupted so I'll have to delete and generate it again to generate a demo file.
You can just go to Loco and select the translation file and click this button that says out you'll be
provided a download that you can then just add back to your plugin.
I'm going to do this now.
All right.
So that's basically it for translations before and this lecture.
I do want to introduce another tool for translating plugins and themes.
There is a program called Po edit Po.
Edit is a premium tool for generating P O M0 NPR t files.
It provides an interface that will take care of doing all the coding for you.
It also helps with translations into various languages even if you don't know the language yourself.
One of the benefits of using Poe edit is that it has support for wordpress.
It will scan your plugins and themes and look for translations so that you don't have to.
However to access those features you will have to pay for the pro version.
I highly recommend you do so.
It's definitely worth the money and it will save you a lot of time.
It's especially useful if you have a large plugin with tons of translatable text.
I prefer Poe edit because the translations tend to be more accurate and it will save files in the correct
spot.
I'll provide a link to this program in the resource section of this lecture.
Install it and if you can purchase the pro version before I finish this lecture I want to test this
translation.
I'm going to go to Settings general in the WordPress admin dashboard scroll to the bottom and change
the site language to French or as WordPress calls it France Soir
let's view one of the recipes as you can see our plugin has translated this text to French I believe
I've missed a few translations in the process but overall it's good to go.
That concludes translating a plugin translating the theme is the same process so go give it a try.